Portenta X8: Flashing tutorial[PC-892] (#167)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/04.pro/boards/portenta-x8/tutorials/image-flashing/content.md

difficulty: intermediate
tags:
  - Embedded Linux
  - Flashing
  - Foundries.io
author: 'Pablo Marquínez'
hardware:
  - hardware/04.pro/boards/portenta-x8
---

## Overview

In this tutorial you will see how to manually flash your Portenta X8 with the image that is provided by Foundries.io through USB using the Terminal.

## Goals

- Get the required files
- Set up the correct structure of the files
- Set up the board
- Flash the device

### Required Hardware and Software

- USB-C to USB-A or USB-C to USB-C
- Portenta X8
- Portenta Breakout Board <!-- or Portenta Max Carrier-->
- Arduino Create account
- Arduino Create Pro subscription
- Foundries.io account (linked with the Pro plan)
- FoundriesFactory® ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))
- 1 Device already attached to your factory ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))
    
## Instructions

### Get the Required Files

Required files following this structure:

- Root folder
  - imx-boot
  - imx-boot-portenta-x8
  - sit-portenta-x8.bin
  - u-boot-portenta-x8.itb
  - mfgtool-files-portenta-x8.tar (Unzipped)

>   - lmp-partner-arduino-image-portenta-x8.wic.gz (Unzipped)

Reviewer: @marqdevx is this the part that causes the linter error?

> `❌ ERROR: Content uses nested lists Location`

I like to use [the `tree -AF` command output](https://linux.die.net/man/1/tree) for file system diagrams:

```text
<Root folder>/
├── imx-boot
├── imx-boot-portenta-x8
├── lmp-partner-arduino-image-portenta-x8.wic.gz
├── mfgtool-files-portenta-x8.tar
├── sit-portenta-x8.bin
└── u-boot-portenta-x8.itb
```

Author: If im not wrong the issue is on the "meta-data" on top of the content

nice! I tried to do that manually but now i will use that 👀

Author: Not working in windows though :( ahha

Author: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11246294/163394399-deec7e7a-0e6a-4d80-9fb9-accd45fb76b8.png)
Much better

Reviewer: There is a native `tree /f` on Windows:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/tree
However, I don't really like the output.

I use this instead:
https://sourceforge.net/projects/gnuwin32/files/tree/
It will produce the same output as `tree` on Linux if you use the `-A` flag

To get those files open your FoundriesFactory®.

Switch to the targets tab.

Click on the platform-master version.

On the "Runs" section open those collapsed labels, and download the files listed above.

After downloading them, make sure you put them in a folder following the structure shown.

### Set the Portenta X8 to Flashing Mode

Plug your Porenta X8 into your carrier (Portenta Breakout carrier <!-- or Portenta Max Carrier-->).

Switch both DIP switches to the ON position.

Plug the USB-C end into the Portenta X8 and the other end (USB-C or USB-A) to your computer.

You will see a new device connected called `SE Blank M845S`.

### Flash the Device

Open a terminal and change the directory (`cd`) to your root folder as shown in the beginning.

> Use the ´uuu full_image.uuu´ command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `uuu full_image.uuu` command.
```
Was this a typo? Backticks (`` ` ``) are standard Markdown markup, but I have not see the "acute accent" (`´`) character in this usage before.

Author: Missclick :) thanks 👌

---
beta: true
title: 'How to flash your Portenta X8'
description: 'This tutorial teaches you how to flash your Portenta X8 through USB'
difficulty: intermediate
tags:
  - Embedded Linux
  - Flashing
  - Foundries
author: 'Pablo Marquínez'
hardware:
  - hardware/04.pro/boards/portenta-x8
software:
  - Terminal
---

## Overview

> In this tutorial you will see how to manually flash your Portenta X8 with the image that is provided by foundries through USB using the Terminal.

Author: Goood point 👌 I'll change it 👁️ thanks

> In this tutorial you will see how to manually flash your Portenta X8 with the image that is provided by foundries through USB using the Terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you will see how to manually flash your Portenta X8 with the image that is provided by Foundries.io through USB using the Terminal.
```

## Goals

> - Get the needed files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Get the required files
```

- Set up the correct structure of the files
- Set up the board
- Flash the device

### Required Hardware and Software

- USB-C to USB-A or USB-C to USB-C
- Portenta X8
- Portenta Breakout Board <!-- or Portenta Max Carrier-->
- Arduino Create account
- Arduino Create Pro subscription

> - Foundries account (linked with the Pro plan)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Foundries.io account (linked with the Pro plan)
```

> - Foundries factory (Check the Getting Started tutorial)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- FoundriesFactory® ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))
```

> - 1 Device already attatched to your factory (Check the Getting Started tutorial)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 1 Device already attatched to your factory ([Check the Getting Started tutorial](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/portenta-x8/out-of-the-box))
```

> - 1 Device already attatched to your factory (Check the Getting Started tutorial)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 1 Device already attached to your factory (Check the Getting Started tutorial)
```
Misspelling

    
## Instructions

> ### Get the needed files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Get the Required Files
```

> Needed files following this structure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Required files following this structure:
```

- Root folder
  - imx-boot
  - imx-boot-portenta-x8
  - sit-portenta-x8.bin
  - u-boot-portenta-x8.itb
  - mfgtool-files-portenta-x8.tar (Unzipped)
  - lmp-partner-arduino-image-portenta-x8.wic.gz (Unzipped)

> To get those files open your Foundries factory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get those files open your FoundriesFactory®.
```

Switch to the targets tab.

Click on the platform-master version.

On the "Runs" section open those collapsed labels, and download the files listed above.

After downloading them, make sure you put them in a folder following the structure shown.

> ### Set up the Portenta X8 into flashing mode

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Set the Portenta X8 to Flashing Mode
```

> Plug you Porenta X8 in your carrier (Portenta Breakout carrier <!-- or Portenta Max Carrier-->).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plug your Porenta X8 into your carrier (Portenta Breakout carrier <!-- or Portenta Max Carrier-->).
```

> Switch both DIP switches into the ON position.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Switch both DIP switches to the ON position.
```

> Plug the USB-C on the Portenta X8 and the other end (USB-C or USB-A) to your computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plug the USB-C end into the Portenta X8 and the other end (USB-C or USB-A) to your computer.
```

You will see a new device connected called `SE Blank M845S`.

> ### Flash the device

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Flash the Device
```

> Open a terminal and change the directory (`cd`) to your root folder as shown on the beginning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and change the directory (`cd`) to your root folder as shown in the beginning.
```

> Introduce ´uuu full_image.uuu´

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the ´uuu full_image.uuu´ command.
```

Wait until it gets flashed.

Switch back the DIP switches to OFF position.

> Unplug and plug again the Portenta X8 to your computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Unplug and then plug in the Portenta X8 to your computer.
```

> ***After flashing you will need to wait 10 secs, until the Portenta X8 blue LED start blinking, that means the boot was successful***

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
***After flashing you will need to wait 10 secs, until the Portenta X8 blue LED starts blinking, this means the boot was successful***
```

## Troubleshooting

> - If you get an error while its flashing, make sure your USB is correctly plugged. Re-plug your board and try to flash again, you may need few tries before it gets a success flashing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you get an error while its flashing, make sure your USB is correctly plugged in. Re-plug your board and try to flash again, you may need few tries before the flashing is successful.
```
